[Music]
[Applause]
shipping containers they're affordable
transportable and people are coming up
with innovative ways of recycling them
we've seen a few of them on the show if
you ever want to add a second story just
get out of the container and drop it on
top I mean that's what they're designed
to do so we're gonna show you now how to
turn a shipping container into a house
behind a $45,000 yep a whole house for
under 45,000 sir I've come up with a
simple designer we have to watch every
last dollar and think outside the box
for this one okay come on good yeah
Richie was sick of the city life and
always dreamt of a tree change and found
the perfect spot rolling hills the
aspect of the river the beautiful big
gum trees I thought that's my dream home
he scraped together every last dollar to
buy the land so couldn't afford to build
a house a great temporary solution then
would be a shipping container you know
especially in stormy weather and to have
power and toilet no running water and
essentials of life he concern his hand
to just about anything and is really
good at welding and I think he's up for
a challenge good mind always like to
make friends with a man with an axe
right you're after a tree change yes
that's right
yeah right we've got a magnificent site
mate you excited about this container
I'm very excited exciting it is so
important
I've got a few spots that I look at all
right let's check out look at the pros
and the cons I Oh lovely all right let's
go even though this will be a mobile
home the old chestnut about location
still applies so you want protection
from the Sun but you don't want complete
shade a northerly aspect is the go good
access to the river but not close enough
to flood and the big one what's the view
which this is your tent yep that's
correct now that that's the first place
that you pick when you first came here I
think this is a pretty good site to be
putting the container it's elevated so
we don't have the problem the river
rising it's still on the northern side
of that rocky escarpment so we're going
to get northern light but we've got
plenty of canopy
I think this site here is probably well
I think it is the best site trying to
pick it out let's do it
[Music]
twelve metres long we need to get this
angle on
[Music]
she's awesome how excited
and here's Ritchie's new home containers
come in various sizes we're going for
what they call a high container that's
three meters high and it's a 40-footer
make sure it's as new as possible
watertight and hasn't been used for
transporting chemicals this one's new
and cost six thousand four hundred and
fifty bucks now similar prefab options
start from around 30 grand but that's
usually just for the shell
so our final costs for a custom fit at
home for under forty five thousand is
pretty good we needed a crane to get our
container into position and that cost
two hundred fifty dollars an hour and
that's from the minute it arrives
on-site so it's essential everything is
perfect and that includes the footings
it's not just an exciting project for
Ritchie Adam always wanted to convert
one as well now there comes a time where
the architect has to hand the plans over
to the Builder to deliver the baby I'm
looking forward to working with you on
this one don't mess it over ring me if
there's any problems so the plan is to
have the bedroom at one end with a
living area and kitchen in the middle a
walk the other end will separate the
bathroom on the outside there'll be a
deck to double the living area covered
by a pergola and Jason will landscape
add a fire pit and plant climbers to
soften the look at the container
gonna be exhorted Thank You Mai I'm very
excited can't wait
so scary ejector Jay yep and I'll tell
you it is a decent size may and the
sooner isn't too bad over I do a bit
chilly this morning yeah best thing
about this which I use everything's
temporary the shipping container we can
unbolt it you can take it wherever you
like and the deck is gonna be exactly
the same we're not gonna be digging
holes in the ground putting posts in
we're using these handy blocks you just
level the ground sit him in place for
the posting and support a subfloor
that's handy that's very easy right
quick system isn't it it's fantastic
Reacher yep and with views like this a
large deck is a must for outdoor living
[Applause]
[Music]
that is huge it's a good open space
isn't it fantastic there's only one
problem you can't see that beautiful
deck we just build well so there's only
one thing today right we'll start
Hawking it with a doors go the windows
let's bring that view in here ugly you
all right yep perfect this is gonna be
huge it's exciting okay you can do the
honors encounter here count like stay
tuned to see how these turns out a
little later
this could be a total disaster you know
that's what could possibly go wrong
we're building a home for Richard out of
one single shipping container and lucky
for me he's got some useful skills on
our phone I've been working with metal
since I was 14 steel work blacksmithing
forging welding which is great because
there's a lot of work with two doors and
four windows to Korea I think Richie is
a man possessed
[Music]
while Richardson saw I doing all my
dirty work the cutouts I'll get on to
making these windows their standard
sized windows it you can get off the
shelf from Bunnings aluminium double
glazed and double glazing is really
going to help with insulation but the
best part about it is with these joining
strips you can make them as wide or as
high as you like so you'll never have to
get custom-made windows a guy yeah my
windows made I'm just attaching a timber
reveal which will allow me to fix it in
place finishes it off nice and just like
that we've got a custom window looks
beautiful
which is also pre-made the steel window
sills good and remember fight the urge
to look at someone welding because blind
you it's clever design of angled windows
not only gives you more shelf space on
the inside
it also frames the view we've attached
timber studs to the steel wall frame
ready to take the warning but next it's
the depth
no maintenance but you don't have to
paint it at all
no painting mate this is it yep the eco
deck is a composite of bamboo and
plastic
but the best bit is by using this tool
to hide the feces you get a seamless
look that's awesome for the ceiling in
the shipping container I'm basically
making up a modular system so I've got
to make a standard frame and then I'm
gonna click one side with plywood which
we give it that real architectural feel
and then just pack it with insulation
batts then I've got 2 angle brackets on
the sidewall and it's as easy as just
sliding them in place and to create a
shadow I will simply just painted some
pawn I'm putting it on the edge and then
the next panel will just butt up against
it this is gonna look great at the other
end of the container we're putting in
the only internal wall that will
separate the bathroom right then it's
more insulation
because we don't have much space in here
instead of building a timber frame where
I take up seven mmm I've connected the
studs directly to the shipping container
and then put the insulation in and our
timber battens so that way we're not
taking up as much room in our plastic
ball and go directly on this
[Music]
and next 40 when the plasters draw the
walls are ready for a sand and a seal
and to give it a perfect finish around
our fancy angled windows we're using a
flexible sealant
the views here are absolutely
spectacular I'm very lucky you are but
it's definitely not tools down yet we
have plenty of work to do to finish this
house and we're gonna get JC to work his
magic I'm looking forward to Jason
coming for the garden will be good
there's all sorts of modular homes a kid
home the size of ours should be
container you set you back roughly
thirty thousand but that's before
fittings electrics all plumbing all up
including the custom fit out our
shipping container is going to cost
around forty five grand
speaking of fit out we're ready for the
floor
just putting down a timber look floating
floor it's a great way to dress up any
room you want a budget not just a
shipping container the beauty about this
flooring is it has tongue and groove
ends as well as the two faces so the
offcut of this space will be the start
of the next row which means minimal
wastage
[Music]
we might look hidden storage is the key
to any small house or apartment right to
keep costs down I'm using standard
off-the-shelf caboodle cabinets but in a
very clever way not only will this hide
all of Richard's mess but as you can see
it divides the bedroom from the kitchen
so there's no wall required and for the
kitchen it's more cabinets I love how it
frames the area and turns a window into
a splashback
for the bench tops were using for moi
and it's a good budget way to get a
bench top and also the good thing here
is their edge matches with their ceiling
but you want to make sure that you seal
it and also we get extra bench space
because we're pushing it into our window
box you like it Richie love it next day
we finish off the kitchen cabinets and
get the appliances he
metaphor bit of a chalkboard way here I
painted up if there's an old fridge so
it goes in with the rest of the kitchen
perfect
our Sparky's been back to connect the
lordy and things are beginning to look
pretty sharp for the cladding in the
bathroom I'm using this towel sheeting
you know this is a great product you can
use it as a splash back in the kitchen
or as wall panels in your bathroom
instead of tiles the best part about
this is that's a lot cheaper than glass
and gives you the same look and it's
very easy to work with
simply give it a quick scene to help it
key then stick on some double-sided tape
and apply silicon the tape will holder
while the silicon sets
[Music]
and it's as easy is that to get these
paneling on the wall every house needs a
train but this one's a little bit
special it's environmentally friendly
there's no water required so you won't
need a plumber which means you can
pretty much put it anywhere and we
thought this cutting edge design the
only thing I won't do is put the toilet
seat down for you I think which is going
to struggle we're pairing along with our
container house for 45 green we've
already built the deck and now it's time
to cover it with a simple pergola and
we're going with sequin sheeting which
is the cheapest metal option because
remember we've got to keep your total
bill cost under 45 green I love what
you've done with the place it's good
good I'm glad you're up that ladder I
need two bolts put in here because what
was your firewood is gonna be a
fantastic screen sculpture even call it
an artwork if you like beautiful well
there's a drill and we'll catch you
later
you know a little out where it's got a
fair bit of weight to it it's probably
about 60 or 70 kilos so attaching it to
a big strong beam and I'm using a big
strong I like boys as much as I don't
want to ask as much as you don't want to
help I need you to lift this up for me
while I tie it off bit heavy
yeah I might take my time time he's not
sure all I got a gap in the building
yeah I love the idea of a shipping
container but the only problem is 40
foot of stock wine staring in an
environment like that is too much for
anyone so I'm gonna cover a little bit
up we're gonna plant up to it I'm gonna
cry up upon it I can understand if
you're not really a plant person that
you walk past that in the nursery you
just think it's a dead stick but it's
called Boston ivy and it's worth the
investment you're gonna get fantastic
autumn color every color in the rainbow
that means it's deciduous the leaves
fall off it this wall can bake in the
Sun in winter it'll be nice and warm
then in summer you get all this lush
green foliage looks fantastic and it
protects the wall which keeps inside
cool so the veranda and climber will
frame the entrance nicely and that's
what the trellis is for I've got some
REO mesh going up and across the beam
well I love working with it because it's
dirt cheap it looks good it's industrial
so ties into the house and it's strong
and robust so no plant no matter how
heavy it gets is kind of break it and
the climber that I'm gonna put up this
trellis is bogan philia you'll get a
beautiful flashy car they're a great
plant they're so tough and Hardy and
this is a safe spot for it that's why I
deliberately didn't put on the post here
near the stairs away from hands and eyes
let's face it when you've got the
natural beauty of the river and the land
you want to keep the garden to a minimum
so you can enjoy all the other things
that the environment lenzi to so I've
got quite a simple little garden here a
little wattle take a seer limelight
they'll just clump up make little balls
but it'll be informal hedge with a
dianella behind it one treat of water
Gump when you're planning a decent-sized
tree like this I like to do a couple of
things firstly make sure you don't cover
the root ball you can suffocate it but I
do like to put a little sort of dam wall
around the outside of it for about three
or four months that means you can give
it a good deep so you can leave a little
bit of water on top to penetrate in once
you start seeing new growth on the tree
you just move it away with your hand and
it's still at the perfect time and then
to make a big statement I've got the
biggest fire Peter can get now this is
thriller Bucks of bones but when you
think of the hours of entertainment and
relaxing sitting around it worth every
cent it's been a long road all the way
from the yard for our shipping container
[Music]
what do you think aha looks unbelievable
pace design proved what's achievable in
just a shipping container
[Applause]
the pop-out windows break up the box
interior and it's a clever way to
introduce extra space there's heaps of
storage which doubles as a dividing wall
between the bedroom in the kitchen
it's both stylish and functional pour
this within a simple sleek Scandinavian
inspired design it's got to change the
way ricci news
[Music]
I live in a bedroom got a shower of a
throne where this goes on beautiful
kitchen
what's the one thing in there that's
like really jaw-dropping for you I like
the way that's been set up like the
design from Pete the architect it's
quick to build it's not taking that long
and yes it's a small space but it's
close enough room for me we've managed
to get all the creature comforts into a
55 square metre home and all for under
forty five grand
that's an incredible achievement
considering today's house prices Pete a
lot the pot how good is that
awesome right that is nature's
television and with that as the backdrop
I don't care what anyone says you're
winning
yep are they paid Adam has done an
incredible job creating a good-looking
practical home on a budget maybe we
should have fish for dinner you catching
no I was gonna get official
what a perfect end to a perfect day